Title: Quilter's Creative Touch Software

The Grace Company has always been known as a manufacturer of some of the best quilting technology available on the market today. With the release of Quilter's Creative Touch software, they have now succeeded in making computerized quilting easier than ever before. For starters, users will be treated to the simplicity of a touch screen. On top of that, there is also an upgrade of the Grace Company's popular QuiltMotion software. This gives the user better functionality than if you were using your own computer to run the QuiltMotion program. 

QuiltMotion allows you to choose the patterns you want to stitch out. You can do this by simply tapping one of your fingers on the screen. Since tablets and many varieties of smartphones employ touchscreen technology, it was only a matter of time until computerized quilting started to take advantage of this type of interface. The user also has the ability to create new patterns and store them in his or her library for future use. Layout is incredibly easy because the program is capable of adjusting various patterns so they are able to fit inside quilt blocks. It is even possible to set up QuiltMotion to create an entire quilt. Quilter's Creative Touch software is a program that is designed to trace a pattern provided by the user and apply it to a quilt. Users are able to change it and save it to their library. This allows them to stitch the same design many times in the future.

After a design has been successfully set up, the user can sit back and allow QuiltMotion take over and do all of the quilting. Many computerized quilting programs are difficult to use and understand. However, Quilter's Creative Touch software makes using QuiltMotion to do your quilting easier than you ever thought possible. If any problems should arise during the process of making your quilt, the Grace Company's engineering staff will be there to help you. Their job is to get you up and running as quickly as possible, helping you to avoid the aggravation that often accompanies using computerized quilting systems made by other companies. 

There are different versions of Quilter's Creative Touch software that are specifically designed for various brands of sewing machines. In order to find out if there is a version available for your brand of sewing machine, call your sewing machine dealer or the manufacturer. A tablet, PC or laptop that has Windows 7 or Windows 8 is required to run Quilter's Creative Touch software.