Title: Quilting Arm For Sewing Machine

Quilting is a popular craft first introduced by the ancient Egyptians. With today’s busy lifestyles, it may be difficult for hobbyists to find the time to quilt by hand. A quilting machine enables hobbyists to create beautiful designs in less time. In addition to the various sewing features, the length of the quilting arm is an important consideration when evaluating sewing machine models.

The Arm and Throat

The arm is the distance from the middle of the needle to the vertical part of the casing on the right-hand side of the machine. This length determines whether a machine is a short-, mid- or long-arm model. Each length has its advantages and disadvantages. The area under the machine’s horizontal casing, or arm, and above the base is called the throat or harp. The longer the machine arm, the larger the available work area. Quilting projects will often require the material to be folded or rolled. A larger throat area makes it easier to handle the material before having to reroll, fold or reposition the quilt. It also enables quilters to use thicker batting and larger patterns. The space is usually measured in inches.

Short Quilting Arm for Sewing Machine

The throat on a short-arm machine is usually 12 inches or less. A domestic sewing machine with a quilting function may have a throat of only 7 inches. A dedicated short-arm quilting machine will have a throat ranging from 9 to 12 inches. While quilts of any size can be created using these machines, the smaller opening requires the material to be repositioned more often, which makes it harder to work on larger quilts. These smaller machines are typically the least expensive option.

Long Quilting Arm for Sewing Machine

Since most long-arm machines are mounted on a frame, they have throats 18 inches or longer. The material and batting are fed through the machine from rollers. The quilting machine head moves around the frame while the fabric stays in place. The head can be hand or computer guided. These are usually the most expensive quilting machines.

Mid-length Quilting Arm for Sewing Machine

Mid-arm machines range from 12 to 17 inches. They provide a balance between the other two options. While the throat is not as large as a long-arm model, the mid-arm machine is less expensive. Although it may cost more than a short-arm model, the mid-arm has a large throat area making it easier to work on larger quilts and patterns.